# About this site

Welcome to Parenting Passport! My name is Kaylee Nguyen and this is my creative corner. My family of three live in Dallas, Texas. My husband and I love traveling and we have been traveling with our daughter since she was only a few months old. Through Parenting Passport, I hope to share our experiences and lessons traveling the world and growing as a family. 
Parenting Passport is an independent publication launched in April 2023 by Kaylee Nguyen. If you subscribe today, you'll get full access to the website as well as email newsletters about new content when it's available. Your subscription makes this site possible, and allows Parenting Passport to continue to exist. Thank you!

# My birth story
I vividly recall the days leading to my daughter's birth. I was watching the YouTube channel "Built to Birth" to learn about breathing techniques and facing my fears.
There are 3 types of breathing techniques:
* The destresser breath which is used to get through contractions. You do this by breathing in for 4-6 seconds, and exhaling for 6-8 seconds for 4 times in a row. 
* The transition breathing which is used to resist the urge to bear down or push. This involves short shallow breaths of 2 in 2 out.  
* The "J" breath which is used while pushing. Do this by breathing in followed by low moaning out, tightening abs and uterus as you breathe out. 
Several times throughout my pregnancy, I had thought what if I died during the birth. It was scary to think about it but facing my fears and talking it through out loud helped me tremendously. What could I do to prevent it from happening? For me, it was having the birth at the hospital where the best doctors and nurses would be there to help me through the process. And that was exactly what we did. 
Another interesting video I watched on "Built to Birth" channel was about how to induce birth naturally and some techniques mentioned were massaging the palm of the hand and the ankle in certain spots. On the night the baby reached full term, I suggested to my husband John that we should try those techniques. Maybe it was a coincidence, but the next morning I had the "bloody show" and called into work believing my labor had started. I continued to move around, ate normally, and breathed through my contractions using the destresser breaths. 
The day passed by comfortably, and I even went to bed thinking that I still had plenty of time. However, at about 12:30 AM on Saturday, I began experiencing intense contractions. Breathing in deeply on the yoga mat was no longer enough, and I woke up John to start timing the contractions. I still thought we had a lot of time and even told John to go back to bed when he said he was going to make coffee. Fortunately, he didn't, as the contractions grew more and more challenging.
I also started having the shakes and thought that I might have low blood sugar so John started making breakfast for us. But even after I ate, it did not get better. I don't know why I thought this was not it yet. I imagined the contractions would get much worse since I am known to not have a high pain tolerance (I complain about the flu shots every year). At about 3:30 AM I started bleeding a little so John convinced me to head out to the hospital. By this time, my contractions were just five minutes apart and getting more intense. We made it to the hospital around 4 AM but it was difficult to walk so the hospital staff provided a wheelchair. In the pre-delivery room, I felt the urge to use the restroom but couldn't. The nurse then checked my dilation and to the nurse's and our surprises, I was already 10 cm dilated. The nurse rushed to call the doctor to the delivery room and I was told that there was no time for an epidural.
Practicing breathing techniques turned out to be one of the best preparations for giving birth. I used the transition breaths through the contractions, delaying pushing until the doctor arrived. Once the doctor got there, she broke my water and I started pushing initially on my knees, then was suggested to try laying on my back. In hindsight, I would have stayed on my knees since laying on my back required more exertion. After a few pushes, our daughter was born at 4:14 AM!
Our lives were forever changed and I'm thankful everyday to be blessed with our daughter.